Concordance.md, before:

Features and Concordance Guide 			{#concordance}
=================

Function names are not all consistent between R and C counterparts of genomicSimulation, particularly for functions introduced very early in the package's life. This is a table of which functions match up with which. 

This can also be interpreted as the list of user-facing functions in genomicSimulationC (though to use genomicSimulationC, you'll also need to consider the delete_ family and the structs in which data is stored).

| genomicSimulationC (C) | genomicSimulation (R) |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| load_data_files \* | load.data \* |
| load_genotypefile | load.genotypes |
| load_mapfile | load.map |
| load_effectfile | load.effects |
| delete_group | delete.group | 
| delete_recombination_map | delete.recombination.map |
| delete_eff_set | delete.effect.set |
| calculate_minimal_bv | see.minimal.GEBV |
| calculate_optimal_bv | see.optimal.GEBV |
| calculate_optimal_haplotype | see.optimal.haplotype |
| create_new_label | create.new.label |
| ~ ||
| make_all_unidirectional_crosses | make.all.unidirectional.crosses |
| make_crosses_from_file | make.crosses.from.file |
| make_double_crosses_from_file | make.double.crosses.from.file |
| make_doubled_haploids | make.doubled.haploids |
| make_clones | make.clones |
| self_n_times | self.n.times |
| make_targeted_crosses | make.targeted.crosses |
| make_random_crosses | make.random.crosses |
| make_random_crosses_between | make.random.crosses.between |
| ~ ||
| get_existing_group_counts | see.existing.groups  |
| get_group_names | see.group.data(data.type="N") |
| get_group_ids | see.group.data(data.type="D") |
| get_group_indexes | see.group.data(data.type="X") |
| get_group_genes | see.group.data(data.type="G") |
| get_group_bvs | see.group.data(data.type="B") |
| get_group_parent_names(parent=1) | see.group.data(data.type="P1") |
| get_group_parent_names(parent=2) | see.group.data(data.type="P2") |
| get_group_pedigrees | see.group.data(data.type="ped") |
| ~ ||
| change_names_to_values | change.names.to.values |
| change_allele_symbol | change.allele.symbol | 
| change_labels_to_values | change.label.to.values |
| change_labels_to | change.label.to.this |
| change_labels_by_amount | change.label.by.amount |
| change_label_default | change.label.default |
| delete_label | delete.label | 
| ~ ||
| split_evenly_into_two | break.group.evenly(into.n=2) |
| split_evenly_into_n   | break.group.evenly |
| split_into_buckets  | break.group.into.buckets |
| split_randomly_into_two  | break.group.randomly(into.n=2) |
| split_randomly_into_n  | break.group.randomly |
| split_by_probabilities | break.group.with.probabilities |
| split_by_bv | break.group.by.gebv |
| split_into_families | break.group.into.families |
| split_into_halfsib_families | break.group.into.halfsib.families |
| split_into_individuals | break.group.into.individuals |
| split_by_label_value | break.group.by.label.value |
| split_by_label_range | break.group.by.label.range |
| make_group_from | make.group |
| combine_groups | combine.groups |
| ~ ||
| save_count_matrix | save.allele.counts(group=NULL) |
| save_count_matrix_of_group | save.allele.counts |
| save_bvs | save.GEBVs(group=NULL) |
| save_group_bvs | save.GEBVs |
| save_allele_matrix | save.genotypes(group=NULL, type="R") |
| save_transposed_allele_matrix | save.genotypes(group=NULL,  type="T") |
| save_genotypes_of_group | save.genotypes(type="R") |
| save_transposed_group_genotypes | save.genotypes(type="T") |
| save_full_pedigree | save.pedigrees(group=NULL, type="R") |
| save_one_step_pedigree | save.pedigrees(group=NULL, type="P") |
| save_group_full_pedigree | save.pedigrees(type="R") |
| save_group_one_step_pedigree | save.pedigrees(type="P") |
| create_evenlength_blocks_each_chr; calculate_group_local_bvs | save.local.GEBVs.blocks.from.chrsplit |
| read_block_file; calculate_group_local_bvs | save.local.GEBVs.blocks.from.file |
| calculate_recombinations_from_file | find.crossovers |
 
\*: The R function does not directly call the C function, but they have the same effects.

Several function names were changed between versions 0.2.4 and 0.2.5. To update a C script from v0.2.4 to v0.2.5, download `names_stopgap.h` from the v0.2.5 release and add the following lines to the preamble:

```
#define GSC_DEPRECATED_VERBOSE
#include "names_stopgap.h"
```

then run the code and follow the instructions printed to stderr to update to v0.2.5 names. An R script that runs in v0.2.4 should still run in v0.2.5, and will automatically print warnings as to which functions in the script should be called by different names from v0.2.5 onwards.

Commit message:

Add specifying genotype file layout manually
New Features

- BREAKING CHANGE: `load_genotypefile` and `load_data_files` now take an extra final parameter of type `FileFormatSpec`. This parameters allows users to specify some or all of the layout and formatting details of an input genotype file. During the loading process, the sections tasked with detecting the already-specified features of the layout are then skipped.

Improvements

- Improvements to the genotype matrix layout detection processes, to cover more edge cases and to use a decision tree that is easier to understand from outside.
- Improvements to input file loading tests, to cover more cases and be easier to expand further in future.
- Improved documentation in Templates and in docstrings of valid input file formats and of how automatic genotype file layout detection works.

Concordance.md, after:

Features and Concordance Guide 			{#concordance}
=================

Function names are not all consistent between R and C counterparts of genomicSimulation, particularly for functions introduced very early in the package's life. This is a table of which functions match up with which.

This can also be interpreted as the list of user-facing functions in genomicSimulationC (though to use genomicSimulationC, you'll also need to consider the delete_ family and the structs in which data is stored).

| genomicSimulationC (C) | genomicSimulation (R) |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| load_data_files | load.data |
| load_genotypefile | load.genotypes |
| load_mapfile | load.map |
| load_effectfile | load.effects |
| define_matrix_format_details | define.matrix.format.details |
| delete_group | delete.group |
| delete_recombination_map | delete.recombination.map |
| delete_eff_set | delete.effect.set |
| calculate_minimal_bv | see.minimal.GEBV |
| calculate_optimal_bv | see.optimal.GEBV |
| calculate_optimal_haplotype | see.optimal.haplotype |
| create_new_label | create.new.label |
| ~ ||
| make_all_unidirectional_crosses | make.all.unidirectional.crosses |
| make_crosses_from_file | make.crosses.from.file |
| make_double_crosses_from_file | make.double.crosses.from.file |
| make_doubled_haploids | make.doubled.haploids |
| make_clones | make.clones |
| self_n_times | self.n.times |
| make_targeted_crosses | make.targeted.crosses |
| make_random_crosses | make.random.crosses |
| make_random_crosses_between | make.random.crosses.between |
| ~ ||
| get_existing_group_counts | see.existing.groups  |
| get_group_names | see.group.data(data.type="N") |
| get_group_ids | see.group.data(data.type="D") |
| get_group_indexes | see.group.data(data.type="X") |
| get_group_genes | see.group.data(data.type="G") |
| get_group_bvs | see.group.data(data.type="B") |
| get_group_parent_names(parent=1) | see.group.data(data.type="P1") |
| get_group_parent_names(parent=2) | see.group.data(data.type="P2") |
| get_group_pedigrees | see.group.data(data.type="ped") |
| ~ ||
| change_names_to_values | change.names.to.values |
| change_allele_symbol | change.allele.symbol |
| change_labels_to_values | change.label.to.values |
| change_labels_to | change.label.to.this |
| change_labels_by_amount | change.label.by.amount |
| change_label_default | change.label.default |
| delete_label | delete.label |
| ~ ||
| split_evenly_into_two | break.group.evenly(into.n=2) |
| split_evenly_into_n   | break.group.evenly |
| split_into_buckets  | break.group.into.buckets |
| split_randomly_into_two  | break.group.randomly(into.n=2) |
| split_randomly_into_n  | break.group.randomly |
| split_by_probabilities | break.group.with.probabilities |
| split_by_bv | break.group.by.gebv |
| split_into_families | break.group.into.families |
| split_into_halfsib_families | break.group.into.halfsib.families |
| split_into_individuals | break.group.into.individuals |
| split_by_label_value | break.group.by.label.value |
| split_by_label_range | break.group.by.label.range |
| make_group_from | make.group |
| combine_groups | combine.groups |
| ~ ||
| save_count_matrix | save.allele.counts(group=NULL) |
| save_count_matrix_of_group | save.allele.counts |
| save_bvs | save.GEBVs(group=NULL) |
| save_group_bvs | save.GEBVs |
| save_allele_matrix | save.genotypes(group=NULL, type="R") |
| save_transposed_allele_matrix | save.genotypes(group=NULL,  type="T") |
| save_genotypes_of_group | save.genotypes(type="R") |
| save_transposed_group_genotypes | save.genotypes(type="T") |
| save_full_pedigree | save.pedigrees(group=NULL, type="R") |
| save_one_step_pedigree | save.pedigrees(group=NULL, type="P") |
| save_group_full_pedigree | save.pedigrees(type="R") |
| save_group_one_step_pedigree | save.pedigrees(type="P") |
| create_evenlength_blocks_each_chr; calculate_group_local_bvs | save.local.GEBVs.blocks.from.chrsplit |
| read_block_file; calculate_group_local_bvs | save.local.GEBVs.blocks.from.file |
| calculate_recombinations_from_file | find.crossovers |

Several function names were changed between versions 0.2.4 and 0.2.5. To update a C script from v0.2.4 to v0.2.5, download `names_stopgap.h` from the v0.2.5 release and add the following lines to the preamble:

```
#define GSC_DEPRECATED_VERBOSE
#include "names_stopgap.h"
```

then run the code and follow the instructions printed to stderr to update to v0.2.5 names. An R script that runs in v0.2.4 should still run in v0.2.5, and will automatically print warnings as to which functions in the script should be called by different names from v0.2.5 onwards.
